# Dynamic PDF Generation

This is a Spring Boot application that provides a REST API for generating PDF documents based on the provided data. 
The application uses a Java Template Engine Thymelead and iText to generate the PDFs and stores them on the local storage. 
The generated PDFs can be downloaded and reused if the same data is provided again.

## Requirements

- Java 17
- Maven

## Getting Started

Follow the instructions below to get the application up and running on your local machine.

### 1. Clone the Repository


git clone https://github.com/Kartikk1127/PdfGenerator.git


### 2. Build the Application

mvn clean install

### 3. Run the Application

mvn spring-boot:run

The application will start running on `http://localhost:8080`.

## API Endpoints

### Generate PDF

Generates a PDF document based on the provided data.

- **URL:** `/api/invoices`
- **Method:** POST
- **Request Body:**

```json
{
  "seller": "XYZ Pvt. Ltd.",
  "sellerGstin": "29AABBCCDD121ZD",
  "sellerAddress": "New Delhi, India",
  "buyer": "Vedant Computers",
  "buyerGstin": "29AABBCCDD131ZD",
  "buyerAddress": "New Delhi, India",
  "items": [
    {
      "name": "Product 1",
      "quantity": "12 Nos",
      "rate": 123.00,
      "amount": 1476.00
    }
  ]
}
```

- **Response:**
  - `Content-Type: text/plain;charset=UTF-8f`
  - The PDF name with path as the response body.

### Download PDF

Downloads a previously generated PDF document.

- **URL:** `/api/invoices/{filename}`
- **Method:** GET
- **Path Variable:**
  - `filename`: The name of the PDF document to download generated by postman.

### Storage Location

The generated PDF documents are stored in the local storage under the `samplePdfs` directory.

## Testing

You can test the API endpoints using tools like Postman or any REST API testing tool of your choice.
